blog: april commit of the month (#567)
windmilleng/tilt.build: blog/_posts/2020-05-04-april-commit-of-the-month.md

---
slug: April-2020-commit-of-the-month
date: 2020-05-04
author: dmiller
layout: blog
title: "Using Pack and Buildpacks"
subtitle: "Commit of the Month: A Buildpack Extension"
image: /assets/images/april-2020-commit-of-the-month/featuredImage.jpg
image_caption: "Photo by Iris Aldeguer on <a href='https://www.flickr.com/photos/irisux/4372485391'>Flickr</a>."
image_type: "contain"
tags:
  - tilt
  - cotm
  - extensions
keywords:
  - tilt
  - pack
  - buildpack
---

In April we introduced [Tilt Extensions](https://docs.tilt.dev/extensions.html). Extensions are open-source packaged functions that extend the capability Tilt, right inside your Tiltfile. Since releasing them we've seen several great extensions contributed by members of the community and we're highlighting one of them as April's Commit of the Month: [an extension to use pack and buildbacks to build container images](https://github.com/windmilleng/tilt-extensions/commit/e1d193e508ce8468800d0985ee4714aa65d78c87) by [Gareth Rushgrove](https://twitter.com/garethr)!

> ## What is buildpack? What is pack?

Reviewer: should this be:
- what is `buildpack`
- what is a buildpack
- what is a `buildpack`
- what are buildpacks?

I feel like `pack` as a CLI tool should always be in backticks, here and in the header below

Author: ah yeah good call

> From [the docs](https://buildpacks.io/docs/concepts/components/buildpack/): A buildpack is a unit of work that inspects your app source code and formulates a plan to build and run your application.

Reviewer: huh, neat! Could you give an example here of what a trivial buildpack might look like? Would help with comprehension imho

Author: I might link to it but TBH it's a bit confusing so I'd rather not dive in to it here =\

Typical buildpacks are a set of at least three files:

- `buildpack.toml` – provides metadata about your buildpack
- `bin/detect` – determines whether buildpack should be applied
- `bin/build` – executes buildpack logic

`pack` is a command line tool that takes your source code and invokes the appropriate buildpack(s) to create a Docker image, or deploy it straight in to the cloud of your choice.

## How does the Tilt pack extension work?

> This extension adds the `pack` function, which is used the same way as `docker_build` to allow Tilt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This extension makes the `pack` function available in your Tiltfile, which is used the same way as `docker_build` to allow Tilt
```
maybe this is gratuitous, but seems useful explanation to someone who doesn't yet grok extensions

to automatically build a container image with a known name.

```python

> pack('example-image')

Reviewer 2: for what it's worth - one of the big lessons I had from working on textbooks and o'reilly books was that all code snippets should have link to a working example. You'd be amazed at how often people write totally broken examples without something to check them against, even for 1-2 line code snippets

Reviewer 2: in this case, I might just link to the README and use his exact snippet

```
load('ext://pack', 'pack')

pack('example-image')
k8s_yaml('kubernetes.yaml')
k8s_resource('example-deployment', port_forwards=8000)
```

---
slug: April-2020-commit-of-the-month
date: 2020-05-04
author: dmiller
layout: blog
title: "Using Pack and Buildpacks"
subtitle: "Commit of the Month: A Buildpack Extension"
image: /assets/images/april-2020-commit-of-the-month/featuredImage.jpg
image_caption: "Photo by Iris Aldeguer on <a href='https://www.flickr.com/photos/irisux/4372485391'>Flickr</a>."
image_type: "contain"
tags:
  - tilt
  - cotm
  - extensions
keywords:
  - tilt
  - pack
  - buildpack
---

> In April we introduced [Tilt Extensions](https://docs.tilt.dev/extensions.html). Extensions are open-source packaged functions that extend the capability Tilt, right inside your Tiltfile. Since releasing them we've seen several great extensions contributed by members of the community and we're highlighting one of them as April's Commit of the Month: [an extension to use pack and buildbacks to build container images](https://github.com/windmilleng/tilt-extensions/commit/e1d193e508ce8468800d0985ee4714aa65d78c87) by [Gareth Rushgrove](https://twitter.com/garethr)!

Reviewer 3: s/capability Tilt/capability of Tilt
